Adding programatic forces.
In this video, we'll cover movement in unity, both traditional movement and movement with physics.
We'll examine the types of forces we can use in physics movement.
We'll open up unity and we'll play with those forces.
Movement in Unity with traditional movement.
In unity, movement occurs via the transform component.
Take a look at the snippet on a update call.
We check if the input is In this case, a right arrow key is held down and then we move the transform
position to some other position.
The steps are update input and use the transform movement.
In physics a little bit different Movement occurs via the rigid body component.
Crafting a very similar example here we're using fixed update, taking the input and then adding a force
to the rigid body.
Let's compare the two in traditional we use update and update is called one time per frame.
This depends on the frame rate, both the intended frame rate set by the developer and also the actual
frame rate, which is variable and unpredictable depending on the device and how much computation is
happening at the given moment.
Fixed update, on the other hand, is only for physics.
It's called zero or one or many times per frame, depending on your project setup.
It depends on the value called fixed time step.
It's very predictable.
And note about fixed update.
Fixed update function is recommended as the place to apply forces and change rigid body settings as
opposed to update, which is used for most other unity tasks.
The reason for this is that physics update is carried out in a measured time step and it doesn't coincide
with the frame update.
Fixed update is called immediately before each physics update, so any changes made there will be processed
directly.
So we want to use physics update for any of our physics based operations.
Let's look at physics movement in unity, there's different types of forces we can apply.
There's lots If we want to change, the position will be changing the property called velocity, and
the methods that we can use are add force, add explosion force and more.
If we want to change rotation, we'll be changing the angular velocity and there's methods for that
too.
The most common ones are add force and add torque.
Really add force is the most common.
If we look at a code snippet here, we see inside fixed update, we're adding a force and this object
would be moving in the x direction positive, which is toward the right.
If we were to add torque, we could use a similar setup and use the add torque method and apply a rotation
to that object.
Now the force mode, which is passed in to the ADD force and add torque has different consequences.
The default value is force.
There's also acceleration, impulse and velocity change.
You can see that some of these are affected by the mass of the objects and some are not.
The typical one of force is a gradual and realistic movement, and that's the one you typically use
for basic physics and games.
But these other ones offer good alternatives.
Let's take a look at a demo.
We'll open the ad force demo, we'll play the scene, we'll use the up and down arrow keys, which I
have set up similar to the snippets we've saw to add forces to different objects.
Then we'll check out the inspector and the source code and we'll play around with physic material,
too.
All right.
Let's open up our next scene.
We'll take a look at the ad force demo.
Now here we've got a series of cubes set up on ramps.
Notice the highlights text.
Here we've got a force, impulse velocity change and acceleration.
If we look at the code that's on each of these we see in the inspector, we have an add force demo script.
We take an up arrow and a down arrows.
Our input for all of them, we add the same force of 20 in the x direction.
The force mode is different for each of the four cubes.
The one we have highlighted here is force.
Let's play the scene and see how differently they behave with the same scenario where the only difference
is the force mode.
If they're falling under their own control.
And then I'm going to hold the up key.
And then I'm going to hold the down key.
Notice that some accelerate much more quickly and also some have more of an unpredictable movement in
the Y direction.
As a bonus assignment.
If you want to get deeper into this, there's another scene you can take a look at its ad talk demo.
You can play the scene, use the arrow keys and inspect the code to take a look.
If you're interested to learn more about talk.
In the next video we'll cover is Sleeping is kinematic use, gravity and velocity.
These are common, useful physics properties that we can set with code.
We'll also take a look at turning on and off physics in your game objects and we'll learn why we want
to do that.
Sometimes we'll also play around with all these properties inside the Unity Editor.